Dashboards and charts (#20162)
netdata/netdata: docs/dashboards-and-charts/top-tab.md

# **Top Tab**

> The **Top tab** allows you to run [Netdata Functions](/docs/top-monitoring-netdata-functions.md) on a node where a Netdata Agent is running. These routines are exposed by specific collectors and provide additional insights or the ability to trigger actions directly on the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Top tab** gives you access to [Netdata Functions](/docs/top-monitoring-netdata-functions.md) that can be executed on any node running the Netdata Agent. These specialized routines, provided by various collectors, offer enhanced insights and allow you to trigger specific actions directly on the monitored node.
```

Reviewer: Reworded for clarity.

> routines are exposed by specific collectors

sounds strange

| **Data Table**       | Located below the visualization. Displays detailed results from the executed Function. |

### **View Controls**

You can control the data refresh and update settings in the top right-hand corner of the view:

| Control                  | Description                                        |
|--------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| **Refresh results**       | Manually refresh results (works when the dashboard is in `Paused` mode). |
| **Set update interval**   | Configure how often the results should refresh.    |

---

## **Functions Bar**

The **Functions bar**, located on the right-hand side of the Top tab, lets you select which Function to run, on which node, and apply filtering where available.

| Option                        | Description                                              |
|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| **Select Function**          | Choose the Function to run from the available routines.   |
| **Select Node**              | Select the node where the Function will execute.          |

> | **Apply Filtering**        | Narrow down results using the available filters.  <br> Example for the `Block-devices` Function: <br> - Device <br> - Type <br> - ID <br> - Model <br> - Serial number |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Apply Filtering**        | Narrow down results using the available filters.  <br/> Example for the `Block-devices` Function: <br/> - Device <br/> - Type <br/> - ID <br/> - Model <br/> - Serial number |
```
